okay recording
welcome to GUI and in web browsers and
browsers and connectivity we click all
four 5th of February 2020 we have pretty
nice symmetrical grid of folks and maybe
I'll share my screen show my butt so the
first item on the agenda is ipfs desktop
if feel free to add add your items where
I cover this one it's mostly a public
service announcement we've released a
new version a patch back Vic parent
version of aquifers desktop there are no
functional changes compared to the
previous one apart from adding three new
locales for new languages and bumping up
versions of web UI and go a TFS which
ship with activist desktop so if you
have it installed on Mac OS or Linux you
or Windows you should get out logically
updated to this new version otherwise
you probably will get it soon buy a
package manager of your choice I believe
that that's the announcement update as
soon as possible there are some
performance fixes especially in web UI
the peer screen should work much better
now and related to IP first desktop
there's an ongoing problem on Mac OS
Catalina where the notarization process
there's an authorization process where a
developer uploads binary or like this
image with the
and that specific blob gets blessed by
Apple and in the future when a mock
machine is trying to install a run that
blob it either has additional manifest
stubbled on top of that binary or the
Mac OS itself is probably Halleck
hashing it and sending that to home
asking is this okay to run that's my
understanding I'm not a Mac user so
however I feel that's more or less how
it works and that problem is so far it
was optional however in Mac OS Catalina
it became a mandatory so there that's
why people get this warning that Apple
can not check it for malicious software
that means it's not like notarized and I
sort of did some research on what we
could do to plug an authorization into
existing continuous integration
infrastructure we already use for
releases and there is a way of manually
notarizing already released versions so
I believe we could try that however I
was not able to track who is the owner
of like protocol labs keys I believe
that's more or less where we are with
this right now
if anyone music mike has more anything
to add on top of that I would appreciate
it it's just really confusing
Desktop the icon in your in the finder
and you double-click on it then it pops
up a different one it says like oh do
you still want to open this but if you
try and open it from like using
spotlight that search then it just goes
nope can't open this you need to update
it which is where the confusing part
comes in because it's the latest version
it's just that what Apple means is you
need to get a notarized version of it so
it does not mean like you can like the
workaround history studied from Pfizer
or am i misunderstanding this that's to
be able to open it yeah you need to try
and open it directly from the finder by
double-clicking on the icon you can't
open it like from the disk image or from
search or from the the bar at the bottom
which I forget what they call it but for
most regular people you can turn the
whole thing off for Catalina but you
have to go in the terminal and type some
stuff it's not gonna work for regular
humans and it it's not exactly clear how
it like Mac OS doesn't make it clear
what's going on at all
it's not like it's a security system is
pulling yeah I think that the only thing
to do here is try to close this as soon
as possible to reduce the window and
time regular people who's the target
witness Desktop non-technical users
let's reduce the window in time with
both screens this sounds like little you
have it most of the way there automating
it would be great if you know I'm sure
electric could probably help just ask
electric for the go get the keys to the
Apple account I want to tell you at
least who has them yep yeah we'll see
which one is faster either doing
automatically or finding someone with
Mike and Xcode and all this well I think
there's there's two bits there right
like so for the
the automation we wanted all that done
in the cloud right you have anyway yeah
I mean like we can easily make a new
release okay yeah and instead of I feel
it may take the same amount of time
maybe even but probably the similar
amount of time and if we focus on
automation it was yeah yeah exactly
for this section has to do with my my
question he ended up the IP first Aston
Chandra right I only have one additional
side note around that the first desktop
while I was like doing regression tests
I noticed that drag-and-drop uploads in
into web UI of a folder so like multiple
files in a directory tree that's been
broken not in not only in this release
but also in previous one so I did not
like block release due to that but it's
a problematic space because it's I think
there are multiple bugs around that and
also the product it's the only thing
that we don't have end-to-end tests for
like for drag and drop and for like
directory uploads because the
orchestration API is for puppet
puppeteer like the api's are not just
there we test multiple files on the flat
structure however if you like drag and
want to upload drag and drag and drop
directory tree we did not we don't have
a test for that so that that's that's a
tricky space and going to the final end
to end test oh gosh don't do that to me
oh yeah and to end test
landed in Goa PFS the the PR in Jai's
ipfs is green I believe it's not March
to Jace ipfs only because they are
finalizing the refactor stuff and
probably that would like introduce some
noise maybe we need to tweak this a
little bit but yeah as I said and
problem is that the dose drag and drop
is specific to electron running in an
unmarked and there's a separate bag
I believe in web UI which will also
don't have tests for because we don't
have orchestration for that this might
be something where we had a whole bunch
of stuff like this in Firefox that we
just had manual test cases set up for
and then we just had a web page where
people could go and check whether they
ran those manual test cases on each one
of the tier one operating systems that
we supported so this might be a thing
where we can actually just set something
up and then drop it and ipfs IRC channel
on freenode be like new bit of desktops
out can you test it and then we get
people to just check the box like yep I
ran this manual tests of these things
that are hard to automate and you just
use some people power there with there's
like what two hundred fifty eight
thousand people in the area see general
might be fast on freenode so yeah I
already sort of added something like
that for the release process of IP first
desktop to do explicit manual smoke
tests on Mac Windows and like Linux I
run Linux so but like so many versions
and configurations so yeah I totally
agree
who's doing this work great question
just before we move on for the end end
test bit I knows actually I was just
asking about whether those in test
exercise the with the web UI in absolute
like absence of a deployment channel or
if they actually run electron I know we
talked about puppeteer for running in
browser but if if we can because I knew
we have CI 4 electron tests right so if
we could set up an end
that also runs in electrons in kind of
runs desktop but I know that the way
that desktop is as an application is
also very operating system specific so
this is a menu bar yeah we have entered
and tests in ipfs desktop repo but those
tests are specific to like GUI a big
desktop application so it's like you
started you confirmed like the window
when you click on the icon you confirm
the window with a blue eye shone and
stuff like that and we don't run the
query UI and plugging in those web a web
UI and 20s into this is tricky because
we would not be testing web UI running
in electron we would be testing it over
HTTP API right so it's tricky yeah yeah
maybe this is this is another candidate
for a community testing yeah I think
it's like pretty like the list of those
manual tests could be pretty small and
then just have a github action where as
soon as we ship something a release
called beta it just chirps and the free
no Channel IRC please test me
so the expression answers who is doing
this work so for those of you who are
new to this meeting which is a whole
bunch of you let we had hack dias for a
long time who is here kind of pushing
forward ownership desktop web UI adding
features fixing bugs shipping releases
but hack has moved on to test ground
project which means we no longer have
him here doing this a couple hours a
week but honestly not a lot because he's
splitting that with school he's already
hurt time half time anyway so Lydell has
generously stepped up to the gap and
helped fix some of these emergency level
issues but that's not really sustainable
going forward we need you to be able to
focus on browser work so I'm I'm talking
to I'm gonna be talking to Moxie raviolo
about fun and about possibly somebody
jumping in here to kind of like take on
long term engineering ownership but also
if people know people who are really
qualified electron chance engineers who
might be a good fit who are
interested in taking on like maybe eight
hours per week or something like that or
maybe even growing that overtime of
doing kind of like the release and
maintenance work for IP us desktop that
doing the kind of stuff that we just
talked about over the last have been ten
notes let me know feel free to send me
any recommendations you have and then
I'm also going to reach out I'm talking
to moxie about another another role as
well so I'll be okay I'll see if I you
know someone that is looking for a
challenge like that and you know i i'll
let you know okay thanks you're welcome
I think I think I'm talking to a Marco I
believe yeah yeah mark okay just like as
a closing note on ipfs desktop we those
are like download counts platform
specific package and we can see like the
most of users are actually running
Windows like Mac users and actually if
you sum sum up Linux users those may be
like those users may represent a bigger
chunk than for some reason we'll see
after a week because the apt automatic
update takes some time to are only
direct downloads or those also include
auto update I believe its outer update
because the auto-update mechanism is
fetching the same package as every
instant we should we should figure out
the answer to that question for sure
that we know whether these are real all
total numbers or not yeah these numbers
seem pretty small that's why I was
curious yeah that's that's the problem
we like right now we are using github
for like the distribution we could
switch to self hosted solution which
could in turn give us a better insight
but yeah then we have to do anyway for
other reasons for yes but that's like
yet another thing that would be on a
plate of that feature material new hack
yeah exactly - all right
let me close some tabs next cash next
registering URI and um it's also like a
PSA from me just um indicate that
there's some going work on preparing the
docs and applying for registration of
ipfs your eye scheme
i am i a an a and there is a discussion
which i felt did it's available in that
it summarizes the history the current
state of how ipfs consular /url it's
probably the most adopted thing when we
talk about those things and then the
last popular divided one divided
experiment which did not get traction
for probably good reasons and then some
questions like arguments people head up
against it and finally johnny is helping
us with creating ipfs uri scheme
application and as a part of that I sort
of asked could we should we also
register URL your ends are sort of
interesting thing that could be used in
parallel those are used by things like
RFC's also like the book the unique book
identifiers also in magnet your eyes the
magnet your eyes are using your ends as
well so it probably would not hurt to
while we are registering your your eyes
and getting URLs as well
also like just making sure we have a
name in the urine space so this is a
this is a really good point around why
we have like browsers connectivity and
it's the you are in space allows us to
people to have uniform addressing in
other contexts that are not web browsers
and we in this group we've been focused
on with browsers but having this SK
patch for other addressing types or
embedding in other systems is really
interesting where we're not always going
to get to decide how and where things
are integrated new systems but having
this as kind of a building block for for
guidance for that that I guess the
lowest level of addressing be really
useful is the is the application the
same like do we apply for a pull through
that same draft document no separate
pages and separate registration
processes but yeah I I agree and it will
probably is some adoption in in in some
places where they are already using your
ends for identifying content like
semantic web like solutions so it's good
to give people that option I believe I
touch it on this one I'll link issue on
the notes if someone wants to follow
maybe we should I should we invite mr.
crunch to join this meeting
I feel interested that's a great idea
right just wanted to briefly mention we
are in the process or figuring out okay
ours for browsers and connectivity a
group there are some solid ones and
mostly drafts I'm not sure if we want to
spend time on this goal or just
I would really appreciate it if we spent
time on this call since we still have a
bunch of time to walk through each one
of these and whoever owns it taco for a
minute or two about it because I think
us as a group having better
understanding of the relative importance
of these and also the chances of these P
ones in p2 is actually happening or not
when the repercussions if they don't
happen yep right
so I start cuz I wrote for so the p0 for
me in this quarter is delivering some
domain gateways to ipfs ecosystem and
that means i on my in gateways being
natively supported by go active as j
sacrifice activist companion updating
dogs making sure the all tests are in
place figuring out the migration path
like representing existing dogs
guidelines and stuff like that so that's
a p0 this needs to happen this quarter
and remaining ones are t1 and t2 s--
something I would really like to do is
to write like an experience report spend
some time evaluating existing
connectivity options for ipfs in a
web-browser context like the Dom context
serviceworker context and less popular
ones and produce this like an artifact
which will be both good reference for
now for people who want to use ipfs in
that context but also it probably would
help us to identify some blind spots and
fit that as an input for the p2p roadmap
not sure if this would be a separate
thing I wrote it as a separate thing
like basically creating guides and
reference examples so also like an
experience report about specifically for
setting up infrastructure that
infrastructure for running just a
professional web browser and instead of
using those like public default
bootstrap server
preload servers and delegate nodes
WebSockets Stars and stuff like that
instead provide end-to-end answers for
people who want to run their own right
now it's either scattered around
different places or not existing at all
and then the final one is consolidate
all the specs related to addressing this
is like also probably will be related
like partially partially will be done as
a part of this URI registration scheme
ideally we would clean up our specs
before like submitting that would be
much better if we linked to the one
place and that's more or less from me
what do you want oh yeah you can look
real quick and I have a couple of
questions before we move forward I
wonder if the updating the specs who are
the stakeholders for updated addressing
specs is that for browser implementers
is that for is that for specific work or
just making what ongoing work that you
know needs to happen at some point so
maybe it's a wider topic so I've been
wrecked rocky yeah so I've been tracking
this stuff around our record system for
a long long time and you can tell like
over time that the spec spies grew and
we now have like separate specs which
are living in there in web browsers repo
and those were specifically for talking
to in browser vendors however like
people been using those specs which were
designed for web browsers in other
places for example like et rien
immaterial Microsystems some of their
specs are referring our specs for web
browsers and it gets messy pretty fast
and also we've been revisiting our
approaches over time due to lack of
original subdomains long story short I
think it probably just
give us addressing not ipfs addressing
in web browsers it needs to be like one
document and there could be like a
section the this type of addressing is
usually seen in web browsers but overall
it it just needs to be like a generic
addressing thing so the work here is to
like just take everything into one
document and then and then move it to
the actual specs repo and then in that
PR all the stakeholders from like go
ideas Jessica first like like leads from
of those projects would know what are
possible stakeholders on the user base
yeah and then we would gather feedback
in that single peer because otherwise I
don't see how we can like time this okay
so that sounds like a good p2 for the
the previous two those are kind of I
feel like the guidelines in reference
examples is something that we should try
to hand off to Johnny and Shaunie could
even find a bounty so like this is why
we have a Doc's program now and and
Johnny's goal is to find people to help
write this stuff up so I think that's
something where especially since it's a
p2 I can
I'd say reach out to Johnny and make
sure that an issue gets filed for this
in in docs queue and then it might be
something that you know that's time that
you can get back to spend on other
higher priority issues but this might be
able to move forward even if you are
focused on CID and subdomain I'm not
sure about this one it's yeah it's need
to have it needs to happen however we
will see how it goes I again that one so
is this about what we've been talking
about how it's a unclear which
connectivity options work what
capabilities they provide okay yeah I
think especially super important
especially I need to do this for myself
to understand what works and
does not work after like a single factor
yes very much neat that's great yeah so
that's like right
alright so regarding the first one on
the spreadsheet the appears RV to
basically we started to make some
improvements on this during the famous a
single factor basically during the
refactor we renamed old pearbook into a
pure start to match what
go ahead before and we also moved that
into the gesso PHP code base and started
adding some new functionalities
but now as this was kind of the
groundwork to reach the peer star v2
which will probably have persistence we
might also consider rewriting among
other things but for this I will also
need to push this back forward as the
note in the spreadsheet basically there
is currently issue with some discussions
around this with also the the go team as
the go team will also go to implement
the peers are v2 in their side so we
will need to or I or I will start by
getting a proof of concept or we will
need to get an agreement with everyone
in order to move forward with the v2 of
piercer other going to the Kishin one
basically I already also started working
on this in the key shine basically we
want to move it under the code base in
the API with supporting of the peer IDs
persistence from the piercer v2 so
basically now the lipid petition is used
by Jessup FS but it's completely
external to Jessup HP in a way that it's
just a professor controls and does
everything in the kitchen and basically
it is called to limit vacation but it's
not what people manage it which is kind
of wrong
other than that and my most important
task in the wonder I'm grown to focus on
the lipid-based artist basically we aim
to sunset the websocket star which we
already didn't refactor to the cigarette
stuff so basically we need an
alternative to the WebRTC star transport
as soon as possible and it's the
Stardust will be this piece and then we
will try to do other stuff like Jacob
will will be working on is routed signal
and that's it I had a question that when
you say persistent PIDs
does that mean that we persist parodies
over instances of like are we actually
persisting those parodies and reusing
them when we spin the note back up no we
are not doing that but the goal would be
to do something like that yes because we
ideally we would probably want to
persist beer addresses and eventually
get White's for which were the beers
that we were connected before that were
more important for us and try to
establish metrics that make us able to
initially discover more beers and the
beers that are really meaningful for us
and is that something that's already
implemented in go ipfs and we're just
implementing that in nsj or Cola PTP in
the Marais Polonia Jess now or is that
kind of TBD in both I not sure if they
persist it yet but it's TBD in both this
new version of the PSLV - something's
worth noting JSI PFS does this because
it includes slippy DP keychain and then
hooks it up to the jib JSI PFS repo so
ultimately what we're doing is like
shortcutting that so the pdb just
handles it out of the box so this
means that jeus ipfs has to know a
little bit less detail about all of the
network stack hookup in connection and
all that stuff
you can just hand that off to just like
be to be managed itself I'm really
excited about this work as well so we
stopped relying on the bootstrap as a
single point of failure every time or
notes that cool Jacob yeah for me it's
really getting the distributed
signalling spec kind of nailed down
right now it's very very open and then
direct connection upgrading and then
create a proof of concept of that for
the web RTC and so that will give us a
nice overhaul of the web RTC star
because that didn't get a significant we
didn't significantly update that when we
were doing the refactor is just enough
to get it working with the refactor so
this will do an overhaul and hopefully
make that more efficient as well the big
thing here is getting us direct browser
to browser connections over any
intermediary peer so an in theory as
long as you are mutually connected to
appear you would be able to use them as
a signaler so in theory three browser
nodes could browser node cause you'd
another browser note that they're
mutually connected to to connect to one
another so it's good stuff magical
all right thank you so much I really
appreciate you all taking the time to
write these up and put these in here and
be patient with my many questions about
how this stuff works and I'm super
excited to see more progress on our
connectivity stuff I think that
connectivity map to Lionel's can really
help
we just had a conversation with with
Microsoft yesterday about their use of
JSI PFS and there really is just a lot
of kind of big confusion around which
connection types are used in their what
situations and why what our defaults
mean how to optimize how to optimize for
specific types of clients and connection
types so this works to both like
collapse and and make more cohesive how
what the connection is and its
boundaries between I profess says yes
the p2p will help but also the work that
you're doing light all around what what
the the map of what those connection
types are when they're used how they're
used under what situations this really
helps as well like they were like
sometimes the connection is faster we
don't know why and sometimes it's slow
we don't know why and they don't even
know what what route was used if
somebody asks for a CID from the Gateway
that they got from the Bitcoin
blockchain and they asked the Gateway
but they're reading notes they're like
sometimes it works instantly and other
times it takes these
but and and we have answers to that if
we know how all that stuff works but for
Saudis just an I profess user this
deploying some nodes they don't have
great visibility to all that stuff yeah
and it's also like makes better bug
reports if people have more context and
we often spend a lot of time asking
people for stuff that they could like
just initially write down something it
would help with that as well cool
do we know where what's like the
deadline for finalizing our Okeanos I
think this is where you know because
there was an org switch kind of
rearranged at the beginning the idea was
for now everybody just get their most
important thing this quarter in we'll
talk about a little more in team week I
think you consider these consider what
you put in your finalization of the work
that you are taking on this quarter and
and then when we're a team week we'll
probably spend some more time going
through and making sure that this is the
most important things there's not other
stating things that happen or trade off
some things make but at this point you
know we you know especially in this
group I'm trusting that you all know
what the most important thing that you
have talked and in this meeting or other
places around making sure that that the
this priority order is right and I think
from the work that you and I did Lydell
with Hugo last year or from a browsers
perspective we like kind of stack ranked
every possible thing that we knew we
wanted to do with regard to browsers and
all of the connectivity stuff bumped up
to the top which is part of what
prompted this closer alignment between a
slim p2p and and the browser work so I
think all this seems to align directly
with what what we did in that
prioritization exercise and whenever
that was last fall so so that seems
generally right and then I know part of
it you know I brought this up with the
IP us leads meeting yesterday too is
that we have to do that with an
understanding that Jacob Moscow also
have other things that might trade off
against it for their limb p2p work that
might be higher priority than our
longer-term browser stuff this is a ten
accelerating some of that stuff but also
with an understanding that you also have
loyalty into a whole different area of
consumers let p2p stack I hopefully will
think we're planning to spend some time
at teamwork as well like working through
and organizing and actually getting that
backlog so that we can improve that
visibility into where we're at with
certain things
awesome so I think you like what we
talked about before earlier this week
about just marking your my current
marking the priorities if it's p 0 then
we know to expect it from you this
quarter if it's not p 0 and then we know
that it's going to trade off against
other stuff and and and that it's a
maybe for this quarter
yeah and that should make it today
that's awesome thank you
all right next one I suspect these weeks
oh yeah I just had that summary there we
talked a little bit about this in the
ecosystem meeting but if there's any
changes that you have to come in for how
we describe the special interest group I
think at our team we can our mystery
location we will talk more as a group
about how wait where where we share this
information and how we kind of formalize
this as a special interest groups and
special interest groups are still kind
of new I think I've merged part way
through last year as a alternative form
of working group that if you have any
input in thoughts on on that stuff let
me know
I also added that last agenda item Lyle
and I met with a Galia we talked about
kind of like what the long slow pathway
to Native chromium plantation would be
they do their consultancy that they do
work and they have commit rights on
WebKit HECO and chromium repos they do a
lot of stuff around the bedding for
people they've built features like CSS
grid and added them to browsers so the
and and math ml things like that so
we're talking with them about what some
type of longer-term project would look
like but in the shorter term a smaller
scope project we looked at was well what
would it take to add a protocol handler
API so we can implement native protocol
handler not just for IP fest but you
know and web extension extensibility api
for any protocol registration from the
web extension level so that that's
something that Lytle and you nation I'm
not sure what the next step is there if
that's something that maybe we just want
to talk about it at teen week to wear
together for an hour if you're gonna
spin up at some point a draft of that
for I think is if we even just get a
couple of paragraphs like a one-page
draft of that and get it into a Gallia's
hands and that'll be enough for them to
start estimating what the cost would be
we don't we want to the point there is
to avoid doing that work and have them
do that work so if we could just spec
out either an API or point to previous
examples and what the outcomes that we
want to be are and specifically in which
browser Nick chromium is probably first
is what we discussed and just ignore the
others for now because the the browsers
that were work
with most closely that wants to be able
to implement something like this for
ipfs are all coming based it's mine
yep it's just from like the formal point
of view
do we want to leverage this dev grant
for one of their grant process
especially so so much so I think I'll
probably select start with RFP or like
targeted grant and to have like
deliverables and acceptance criteria
coming from that sounds great I think
targeted grant is probably best because
this isn't something that we want some
the the ability to have having commit
rights and already meeting anger
integrated in the rendering engine
communities is the superpower and that
expertise and experience of somebody
like regalia so I don't think we want
Rando proposals for something like this
and this really isn't going to be a
targeted grant just for the context if
someone's watching this and it's
wondering what our dev grants there is a
cliff I slash their grants repo it's an
experimental grant platform where we
state problems like ipfs project states
problems which could be solved and you
could apply for solving those problems
or you could there's a mechanism for
open grounds and now we are
experimenting with targeted grants where
you can propose your own grant I also
like smaller chunks like bounties
adoption micro grants if you want to
include like I think I give us support
for your into your project but you don't
have like time and resources I need to I
need a file one for the next clouds pour
it like yeah somebody to do that the
whole community wants it yeah I I
believe we'll be leveraging her more and
more this process I have like a list of
drafts I want to write or stuff that I
would like to see but like maybe someone
else that might be a good team week
activity is everybody's got like I know
I have a huge list of ipfs backburner
I just had a few some weeks I can push
out some of these things then just put a
file them all as adoption micro grants
like stuff that people get four hundred
thousand bucks or take on or bounties or
whatever I'm pretty sure we have like an
issues which are detailed enough to
spend some time then move them to a
template of a grant maybe someone will
just just live yep I believe we are at
the end of the agenda we are getting
better and better at this
are there any ad hoc topics anyone wants
to discuss questions concerns
bobby'll would you like to introduce
yourself yeah hi hi everyone so my name
is Homer Dean I'm from Moxie I recently
got employed by Moxie as a TPM to work
with with protocol uh my background is
full-stack developer for almost four
years and I decided to go with the
career of project manager because I love
the interaction between people and
communication between teams and and
think and try to help the team members
improve their work and see if what we
are developing makes sense in the user
perspective so that's it and this is a
bigger challenge for me because it's the
first time that I work as a project
manager for a remote team a complete
remote team so it will be a big
challenge for me but I'm really excited
for new Disney opportunity and so this
is why I'm I'm here in this call is
because I'm I'm trying to learn as much
as I can in these first weeks it was all
the Evans that told me to to that
invited me to be here I already spoke
with Vasco and he told me that I I could
go to this meeting so that's it for me
nice to meet you welcome if you want to
see more faces that all like the
recordings of public meetings on YouTube
okay okay okay
and the drive I I already have
permissions to the drive and I will see
more videos of the recordings - thank
you
all right anyone all right I believe I
will believe we are pretty good thank
you for being here hopefully we'll see
each other next week
bring your agenda items